# LAB 9: Solution for a blackbox problem

Implementation of an algorithm capable to solve a problem without knowing its rules (blackbox problem).

The goal is to obtain a good solution using as little as possible the fitness function.

## Introduction

I have choose to implement an evolutionary algorithm with an initial populaiton of ten individuals.

Each individual consists in a tuple with two parameters:

- A vector of 1000 genomes where each genome could be 1 or 0.
- The fitness value calculated on the vector itself.

## Strategy Adopted

The algorithm is very simple, first of all i have initialized the population creating ten individuals and sorting them based on their respective fitness value.

Then for every new generation of population i discard the worst five individuals (the ones with the lowest fitness value) and substitute them with as many new individuals.

Each new individual is generated by the crossover between two parents choosen from the best five of the population. Then the result of the crossover has been mutated with a gaussian mutation (standard deviation = 0.2).

Now that the new individual is completed i add it to the population and re-sort the population.

Finally it's time to analyze the improvement respect the previous population. So if the improvement is greater than 0.1% the variable "no_improvement" is set to 0 otherwise it is incremented by one. Once the "no_improvement" reach 2000 means that in the last 2000 generations i didn't get a relevant improvement so i stop the algorithm and print the results.

## Conclusions

In my opinion i get a good result that could be improved with some more trials.

In general the best fitnesses obtained may vary based on the initial population and the random variable of the algorithm.

## Peer reviews

https://github.com/leonardo-pieraccioli/computational-intelligence/issues/1
